From rec.games.netrek Thu Mar  5 10:12:09 1998
Path: sci.kun.nl!sun4nl!bullseye.news.demon.net!demon!woodstock.news.demon.net!demon!news.idt.net!news-peer.gip.net!news.gsl.net!gip.net!news-peer.sprintlink.net!news-peer-east.sprintlink.net!news.sprintlink.net!Sprint!newsfeed.xcom.net!cam-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!news.bbnplanet.com!prodigy.com!prodigy.com!not-for-mail
From: Tony Chamberlain <tonyc@icarus.weber.edu>
Newsgroups: rec.games.netrek
Subject: Exercises to help in playing CA(long) Part II
Date: Tue, 03 Mar 1998 18:22:52 -0700
Organization: Prodigy Services Corp
Message-ID: <34FCACEC.5152@icarus.weber.edu>
Reply-To: tonyc@icarus.weber.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: port3.layt2.prodigy.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Post-Time: 4 Mar 1998 01:23:24 GMT
X-Auth-User: 001888422/9374de7b238cbc55
X-Problems-To: abuse@prodigy.com
X-Mailer: Mozilla 3.03Gold (Win95; I)
Lines: 201
Xref: sci.kun.nl rec.games.netrek:62876

01234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789

The second part of my CA exercises.  Please see part I or this will make no 
sense :) 

Section II:  General CA skills

	Now that you can fight at least slightly better than the average player,
you can then proceed to skills you will need to become a netrek player, rather
than just another df'er. 

Exercise 5:  Space control

	This is probably by far the most important exercise and concept you will
need to learn and understand.  Thus I rate it with the highest hours. If you 
don't totally understand the reasoning, just do the exercise anyway and it will
become apparant.

Note :  You must play on a pickup server to achieve this exercise, preferably
in a full 8 on 8 game.  Since you will at least be moderately helping the team,
you shouldn't worry to much about taking up a slot.  A key to this exercise..
as with all the others.. is to do it do the exclusion of all else. Don't 
worry about bombing, taking, or running to save a planet.  Just do the exercise.

	3 hrs:  First step,  find the dividing line between your planets and your
opponents.  Now fly to just on their side of the border.  Your job now, is not
to let ANYONE by you.  Use your dogfighting skills from earlier to kill everyone 
trying to get past you.  If you get to your position and no one is near, slowly
infiltrate and penetrate as far into their space as possible. Eventually, some
one will notice you and try to kill you.  Your job now is to slowly give ground,
will butt-torping and fighting them back to your original position. Hopefully,
you will have killed them, as its easy to run than to chase.  If not..  again DO 
NOT LET THEM past.  Mutual on them at this point of that's all you can do.  

NOTE:  do not retreat to quickly during the "giving ground" phase.  do it about
warp 4 or 5, and stopping every so often to df with them.. then start giving 
ground again.  Do this constantly and a LOT until you really get a feel for it
and I think you will come to understand why you should.. If not read the following
section and start doing the exercise again. 

	The reasoning behind this idea, is that if you don't let anyone in your 
area, they can't take, they can't gas and be escorts FOR the taker, they can't ogg
your carriers, they can't help the SC bomb.. in general they just can't do 
anything that helps them win.  By penetrating you are taking ground (and in a real
game you would be doing all the can'ts from above) then by slowly giving ground
you are giving yourself and advantagde in dogfighting.. so when you kill them, you
still have position to do all the above mentioned items.. and your IN THEIR SPACE.
Don't concern yourself too much be the giving ground.. as all you are doing is 
slowly giving up space you took, to gicve yourself a tactical advantdagde in 
killing them.. However, remember.  if you are pushed to the front line..  STOP
RETREATING, and kill, mutual whatever ;)

Exercise 6: Escorting

	Probably the primary thing you will be doing other than space control.

	1 hr:  Pick some planet scummer, or convince someone on your team to take.
Your job now is to make sure the person takes as many planets as possible in the
shortest amount of time :)  This shouldn't be hard to do as ANYONE will welcome
a constant escorter *grin*.  The basic goals of the escorter are to make sure the
planet is clear when the escorter gets there.  This generally means killing anyone
who is there, and once the planet is clear.. sitting about 3 shiplengths from the
planet between the taker and the incoming oggers.  Use the DET key extensively.  
You WILL DIE a lot, its ok, ships are cheap.

	As you gain proficiency in this, try helping the carriers who are being 
ogged.  Use your ship as a pick.  Get between the ogger and where he wants to be.
Not necessarily directly between him and the carrier.  Basically try to visualize
where his "ogging lane" is and step into it. 

	Note: Here are some basic no-nos to avoid.  Don't fire to many torps once
you've basically cleared the planet.  Use phasers.  they will not only hit the
cloaked guys, but will save your fuel for dets.  DO NOT FIRE over the taker at
cloaked oggers.  wait for them to decloak and tractor/phaser them. their is  a 
significant lag between decloaking and actually being able to fire.  do escort
too close to the planet.. move out a bit, so when you do blow up those oggers, it
doesn't hurt the taker.  

Exercise 7:  Galactic awareness

	Probably the hardest exercise to learn, and one you will probably need
to come back to more than any other (I still constantly have to pracxtice this
one ).  

	2 hr:  Your job is to fly around and do whatever you feel like doing, with
1 big exception.  YOU MUST call every pickup of the enemy.  If an enemy takes a 
planet and you didn't call the pickup, count it against yourself.  Keep at his
until your are only missing 3 or 4 an hour.  If you become extremely proficient at
this, try not only calling, but becoming a "free safety".  Fly right behind
your front line, targetting EVERY possible taker.  If they attempt to cross the
line, mutual/ogg them.  Be at every enemy attempt at a planet take.. oh yeah.. you
still have to call EVERY pickup and keep it to less than 4 misses an hour :)

Exercise 8:  Taking

	This final exercise i hesitate to include, for fear of misunderstaning.
But, if you get the gist of it, you will be much more effective in a game.

	1 hr:  You goal here is not to become the main planet taker of a game. 
That is beyond the scope of what these exercises will provide.  However, limited
taking in certain situations is everyone's responsibility.  Try this for just
1 hour.  Every time you get a kill, you must pick up if possible, and drop the
armies UNESCORTED on a planet.  If someone decides to escort you that's ok, but
you may not CALL for escort.  Also, if there is only 1 ship between you and your
destination you must kill him and still drop.

	This exercise will help for 2 reasons:

	a)  For some reason, when people can out dogfight many others, they
become extremely conservative while carrying.  In fact in a 1-1 situation, they 
will turn tail with armies, even when they normally defeat the opp. 90% of the 
time.

	b) In many situation in the game, it is important for your 1 kill CA to
pickup from the front line and quickly drop on the enemy front line. This will
usually involve and unescorted drop.. with possible dfing in between.
NOTE:  This should be used sparingly in a real game.  For example, in the recent
past in clue and INL games, I have had a 100% PAD with about 8 TAC  ( basically
that means in a 90 minute perioud i picked up and successfully dropped 8 armies, 
with no dooshes.)  While this is nowhere near a main planet taker.. 4 guys on
a team doing this helps a lot.


Well, I hope this exercises help, they certainly help me :).  However, they are
nowhere near a complete course on becoming a "clued" player.. for that you have 
to go to a real player and ask him :)  

Tony
drwhat aka Revenge


