			      PLAYING AS

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Newsgroups: alt.games.xtrek
Date: Sat,  7 Mar 92 16:32:47 -0500 
From: Todd Andrew Williamson <tw0i+@andrew.cmu.edu>
Subject: AS players guide

Here's my guide to playing an assault ship.  I don't consider myself
to be a great AS player, but it *is* my favorite ship type.  What I'm
posting here is just the basics.  Bert (Red Shirt) will probably post
his more advanced stuff pretty soon.

-- Araman

==================================
Assault Ship (AS) Play

SHIP SPECIFICATIONS:

Internal damage/shields: 200/80
Maximum warp speed: 8 
Torpedo Speed: 16
Maximum fuel: 6000
Fuel threshold speed (with/without shields): 6/5
Torpedo damage/fuel: 30/270
Plasmas damage/fuel: N/A
Phaser damage/fuel: Poor (80 max damage)
Maximum armies: 20 
Bombing: Excellent 
Cloaking: Excellent
Manuverabilty: Poor/Fair 
Tractor/Pressor strength: Poor/Fair

BATTLE TACTICS:
 
Assault ships have wimpy phasers and very little fuel, which makes them
pretty bad at dogfighting.  You get maybe 3 torp spreads, and you're out
of fuel.  The good news is that they have the fastest torps available
(along with the scout), which makes it easier to hit with the torps you
do fire.  In order to kill someone, you're going to have to rely on your
torps, since you won't be able to kill anything with your phasers alone.
The huge hull means you can take a lot of damage and still get away, but
the slow speed and poor manuverability sometimes make that difficult.
Tractor beams are not often useful, as they are extremely weak, but
don't forget that you have them, since there are some occasions when
they may be necessary.

Assault are ships bad at ogging, too.  To ogg effectively, you really
need both good tractors and good phasers.  An exception to this is for
starbase oggs, where the large hull means you can survive more phaser
bursts (and thus get closer to the starbase so that your explosion does
more damage), and more of your faster torps will hit the slow-moving
starbase.

I find myself going at a variety of speeds in AS.  Battle speed moves
between 4/5/6.  AS have pretty fair acceleration, and poor
manuverability, so moving between speeds to dodge is a bonus.

vs. BB/CA

These ships manuver poorly enough that you might be able to kill them,
especially if they're inexperienced.  Stay out of tractor range, and try
to get them moving at warp 6 or more so that they can't dodge.  Then
pelt them with a stream of torps.  They may just suck them all.

vd. DD/SC

These ships are too manuverable to hit with torps consistently, and are
very hard to kill with an AS.  You'll have to guess which way they're
going to dodge, and have your torps waiting for them.  Even so, you may
run out of fuel before you've damaged them significantly.

PLANET TAKING

Which brings me to the main purpose of the Assault Ship: taking planets.
Where taking planets is concerned, the Assault ship is King.  The
extremely low cost of cloaking, the low cost of going max warp, the high
engine temperature threshold, the huge hull, and the superior bombing
ability all combine to make the AS the ship of choice for planet-takers
(which is not to say that it is appropriate in all planet-taking
situations; sometimes the maunverability and speed of a DD or SC makes
it preferable).  For example, the AS can go warp 8, cloaked, with
shields down from Earth almost to Draconis before it runs out of fuel.
It can stay cloaked and go warp 1 without losing fuel.

The assault ship is the best ship for bombing.  It is much more likely
to bomb a planet to 1 or 2 armies than the other ship-types, so it
should be used for bombing whenever your team is in a low-army
situation.

There are other guides to planet-taking that say more than I could
possibly come up with, so I'll limit myself to a few points.  When
approaching a defended planet (presumably at warp 8 cloaked; the only
time you shouldn't be doing warp 8 in an AS is when you're dodging,
repairing, or dead), slow down to around warp 5 and begin to dodge.
It's good to det torps a little bit, so that they don't know your exact
location, but you have to be careful, since detting costs a lot of fuel,
which is a scarce commodity.  If you're orbitting a planet and you're
going to get hit, don't just sit there like a lump.  Raise your shields
(don't bother if they're already gone...) and det the stream at max
range, then resume bombing or beaming.

Assault ship pilots are often accused of being runner scum.  That's
because ogger scum like to hunt us down and kill us, and they're often
successful.  If you're going to be ogged, your best shot is to run away
and fire torps out the back.  The combination of your fast torps and the
fact that they're moving so fast that they can't dodge makes it possible
to damage them heavily.  Cloaking is also an option.  If you have a
kill, you should be constantly looking at the galactic map for those
incoming ??.  Chances are there's sombody coming for you.  Remember that
the ogger is not afraid of dying, as long as he can do damage to you.
An ogger's ship is worthless to him, and since you already have a kill,
he doesn't lose anything by giving you another.  This is why you should
run away.  If he can cripple you, he'll be back to finish you off in his
bright, shiny new CA (or even SC) before you get a chance to repair.

Of course, having escorts helps.  Let your escorts det the torps for you
while you're beaming down armies; you're much more effective this way.
If you die, but take the planet, that's cool.

-- Araman

------------------------------

Newsgroups: alt.games.xtrek
From: hde+@CS.CMU.EDU (Herbert Enderton)
Subject: tips on playing assault ships
Date: Sat, 07 Mar 92 22:46:56 GMT

I'm not a great assault ship either, but I like spouting off, so here
is some more advice on playing the assault ship.  Take it or leave it.

Tips for playing the assault ship
=================================

Conserve your fuel; don't fire until you're pretty sure that you will
hit.  For example if you're being ogged, one good strategy is to wait or
run until the moment when the ogger uncloaks behind you, then blow him
away before he gets a chance to fire.  The warp 16 torps are very good
for this.  A reasonable rule of thumb is to fire when you get tractored,
not before.  Try to stay near fuel planets, because you're sure to be
low on fuel after every fight.  If someone attacks you when you have
less than half a tank of fuel, you're probably not going to be able to
kill him, so if you need to live, cloak, dodge, det where necessary, and
pray that he doesn't get a phaser lock on you.  Or else run towards a
friend.

When planet-taking or bombing, save your last 1000 units of fuel for
staying cloaked when getting to the planet and for detting (which costs
100 fuel every time you hit the key).  Learn how early you can afford to
cloak when going for a planet.  Remember that if you cloak when it's
condition green, they can't even see the ?? on the galactic map.

If you can get to the planet before an enemy gets within phaser range of
it, you can guarantee yourself a few seconds on the planet by detting
all torps.  It takes 800 points worth of torps to kill you, if you just
keep bombing or beaming down your armies while detting at the maximum
range.  Stay cloaked, of course, so you don't get tractored off the
planet.  Detting also has the advantage that it hides your exact
position.  The assault ship is by far the best choice for trying to take
the last planet, because it can take so much punishment while beaming
down armies.

Look for planets with exactly 5 armies.  You can destroy or take these
with a one-kill assault ship carrying 3 armies.  Planets with 6 armies
are annoying, because the assault ship's bombing advantage is nullified.

Always send one distress call when you pick up armies, to inform your
team.  Also call out the planet you intend to try for, but be flexible
if it's not going to work.  Your teammates won't necessarily escort you,
but at least they'll have some idea what you're doing, and even the
greedy ones might use the opportunity to scum a kill off someone ogging
you, or to attack a planet elsewhere while you get clobbered.  This
advice applies to all ships, of course.  Two distress calls means you're
in trouble, e.g. you're low on fuel and Val Ckurai is coming to kill
you.

Assault ships are great for playing the "machine gun": orbiting a fuel
planet and firing at anybody in range, while detting (at maximum range)
any torps that might hit you.  The assault ships torpedos have the
longest range of all; they go off the screen and then some.  On the
offensive side of a last planet stand (or a last-two-planet stand), it's
great fun to be an assault ship machine gun at a fuel planet within
range of the target planet.  For example last night we had the Feds down
to Earth and Vega, so I flew down to Altair and fired continuously from
there towards Earth.  This was sufficient to pick up an easy kill or
two, and also drew their attention away from our cloakers -- it's hard
to watch the galactic map while you're dodging torpedos.  Of course
eventually they would come after me and usually kill me, but that's the
idea in an assault ship: force them to attack you, then run away.  Other
things the machine gun is good for include defending one planet against
multiple cloakers, breaking up a starbase-og wave, and in general taking
pot-shots.  Try to avoid overheating your weapons though.

When the enemy has many planets with many armies on each one, the
assault ship is the only reasonable choice.  For example if you're a
Romulan, and you just genocided the Feds and now have to face the
Klingons, your side will have 20 planets with typically about 15 armies
on each one, and the Klingons will have 10 planets with an average of 35
armies on each one, and 55 on the agris.  In this case to play anything
but an assault ship and to do anything but bomb would be very foolish.
Some people complain that they always get killed in assault ships, in
such situations.  This may be true, but it's not because assault ships
are easy to kill; they're not.  It's because an assault ship poses a
much bigger threat to the Klingons than anything else, so the good
players will concentrate on killing the assault ships.  So the obvious
Romulan strategy is to take 8 assault ships into Klingon space at the
same time, and some of them will get through to flatten some planets.
In situations like this it is important not to try to fight the enemies;
if you spend 40 seconds getting to Castor, smash into a Klingon and you
both die, that only helps the Klingon defense.  Instead just fire a few
torpedos, if you like, to give them something to think about, then
cloak, dodge and det on your way to one of their planets.  Fuel planets
tend to be harder to bomb this way, because a clueful defender will
orbit the planet in order to shoot at you without running out of fuel.
The usual strategy for the Klingons in this situation is to send a few
AS bombers, but keep the starbase and some good cruisers back to kill
bombers, and when some of these cruisers get a few kills they refit to
assault ships, load up with as many as 20 armies each, and go take the
Fed quadrant.

Assault ships make excellent decoys because they look like
planet-takers, they can stay cloaked for a long time, and they can
detonate a lot of torps without dying.  The role of a decoy is to draw
attention away from the real planet-taker, and to use up the enemy's
fuel.  So if your friend up at Canopus says she wants to take Earth, you
fly past Earth cloaked (all cloakers look alike, they won't know you
don't even have a kill, let alone armies) and make like you're going to
attack Vega.  With luck some of them will come charging after you,
leaving Earth open.  Then the idea is to stay alive, cloaked, looking
threatening, for as long as possible.  So don't go straight into Vega if
that will get you killed; dodge torpedos and pretend you're Mr. Wizard,
as if you're just going to wait for them to use up their fuel and then
take the planet under their noses.  This is where cloaking in repair
mode can be handy.  Run away in earnest if they get a phaser-lock on
you.  If for some reason they don't come after you, then uncloak.  It's
also sometimes useful to decoy/escort to the same planet that the real
taker is going for; in this case be sure not to blow up on your friend,
and be doubly sure to detonate all torpedos that will hit either one of
you, especially when she is orbiting the planet.  Don't go in too far
ahead of her, lest you draw extra defenders and die before it's time to
usefully detonate their torps.  One good trick is to overlap with your
planet-taker as you approach, then you both cloak and split up, so they
can't possibly know who is who.  Uncloaking and blowing people up is
always an option, of course.

If you're getting ogged by some of their best players, consider simply
runing to neutral space, and keep running as far as they want to chase
you.  The assault ship can go practically forever at warp 8 without
running out of fuel or burning out its engines; in the long run even a
destroyer will have trouble keeping up.  If you're running away from
them you should be able to easily dodge all of their torpedos, so you
really shouldn't die.  Be content to waste their time.  Your teammates
should take advantage of the opportunity to attack their planets while
you're distracting the oggers.  Eventually they'll get tired of trying
to kill you, and then you can sneak back and actually try to take a
planet.  When you're sneaking around in neutral space, be aware of the
rules about when you are hidden on the galactic and when you aren't.  If
you're one third galaxy width away from all enemies, stay uncloaked,
because you can't be seen anyway (unless you orbit a planet you don't
own).

As with any big slow ship, you can't go around picking your fights.  If
you're within range of a planet that their scout is approaching to bomb,
fire some torps at the planet, maybe you'll get lucky.  But don't go
chasing him if he veers off!  In general, if you want a fight, attack
their planets, and thereby force them to attack you.  A multiple-kill
assault ship can actually be a surprisingly good ogger, because the
target will often charge at you, which is much better than you having to
charge at it.  And when you can achieve surprise, those fast torps can
kill him before he has time to react.  Play in such a way that you are
content no matter what the enemy does; if he leaves you alone you bomb
his planets, and if he attacks you, you kill him.

 -- Red Shirt

------------------------------

End of PLAYING AS
*****************

