			      PLAYING SB

	     See also "starbases" for a collection of hints

------------------------------

Newsgroups: alt.games.xtrek
Date: Sun, 26 Jan 1992 14:12:49 -0500 
From: Craig Boas <cb39+@andrew.cmu.edu>
Subject: Starbase Help File

Hi All!

  This is the file I posted last semester with the intent of fixing it
and reposting... I consider it finished at this point, but if anyone has
suggestions please send them.


==============================================================================
Balton's Guide to Playing a Starbase
By Craig Boas, cb39@andrew.cmu.edu
Thanks to Kevin Michael Bernatz kb32+@andrew.cmu.edu for editorial help


  Starbases are unique among ships in netrek in that they always play a
supporting role.  Starbases are prohibited from orbiting planets owned
by other races, even friendly ones.  As a base, you should concentrate
on making yourself an asset to your team by going to planets which are
being contested and either clearing the way for your team's
planet-takers or defending it from potential enemies.  Your other
functions are to draw attention from ships with armies, carry armies to
protect them from bombing, and give kills to your own team's planet
takers.  However, if you are unable to hold a very aggressive position
(ie close to the enemy home planet) don't throw the base away trying.

  The first order of business, naturally, is survival.  If you are unable
to live without a large escort, you are probably hurting more than
helping your team.  Although your low speed makes you an easier target
than most ships, that fact allows you to turn rather quickly, something
you need to exploit if you are to survive.  Practicing dogfighting in a
battleship at low warp is a good way to learn how to dodge at these
speeds.  Nonetheless, when being attacked, you tend to get hit by more
photon torpedoes than most other ships, and as such you should
concentrate on eliminating enemies before they are able to whittle you
down with occasional hits.  You should also learn how to use tractors
and pressors to  help yourself and others avoid photon torpedoes.  A
good base player can estimate how a nearby teammate will dodge and
tractor or pressor appropriately to keep the player from being hit. 
When in doubt do not help a teammate dodge as you may end up causing
them to hit photon torpedoes they would have been able to escape.  It is
best to use enemies as tractor/pressor points to help you dodge photon
torpedoes since you don't mind if they take damage.   If all else fails,
pressoring the ship that fired will give you extra room to dodge since
you will be moving away from the offending ship more quickly.

  Detonating enemy photon torpedoes is a trade-off between weapon
temperature and damage.  Detonating causes all torpedoes in range to
explode in place and damage you, but not nearly as severely as if they
had hit.  On most servers detonating enemy photon torpedoes does *NOT*
hurt your teammates, and as such is a valid way to keep ships docked on
your base from taking damage.  It is much better for you to detonate
photon torpedoes than to let the ship explode on you as a docked ship's
explosion will inflict 100 points of damage, 75 if it's a scout.  In the
event that you are faced with many photon torpedoes and a docked ship,
pressoring the ship is often the optimal course since this gets both of
you away from the photon torpedoes.  Detonating costs approximately 2
weapon temperature per use.  Holding the detonate key down results in
rapidly increasing weapon temperature, so tapping it several times when
incoming photon torpedoes are in range (about one ship length away) is
the best way to proceed.  You should always watch your weapon
temperature closely when detonating photon torpedoes since detonation
does increase it.

  Occasionally, you will not be able to dodge all the photon torpedoes
you wanted to.  In this case, try to minimize your damage as much as
possible.  If you take a bad hit, move away soon.  Not only will this
allow you more time to repair between attacks, it will also move you
closer to your teammates.  Remember, you serve your team no purpose if
you have to keep going to a repair planet.  It is important to remember
that if you appear hurt, you will probably be comprehensively ogged.
There are few things that will throw your enemies into a killing frenzy
faster than someone yelling that your base is moving warp 1.
Accordingly, if you are particularly unhurt (you took an ogg that
*looked* ugly but not much damage) go warp 1 and move back to convince
the enemy team you are on your last legs.  At the same time, inform your
team that you are not that hurt so they don't waste time flocking to
save you.  This tactic should only be employed in conjunction with a
teammate who is going to take a heavily defended planet under cloak
since it may well result in your demise if enough enemies join in the
ogg.

  If your weapon temperature exceeds 130, your weapons will almost
certainly become inoperable for a number of seconds.  The exact time is
random, and whether or not they actually overheat depends on how far
over 130 you go, but it is to be avoided at almost all costs!  A
starbase without weapons is a sitting duck for any enemies who decide to
strike.  However, it is vital to remember that your cloaking device and
your tractor/pressor beams are independent of weapons systems and can be
used to buy time by hiding or pushing enemies away until your weapons
reactivate.  To avoid overheating your weapons you must guide your
attacking strategy by your current weapon temperature.  If you have
little or no heat (approximately 35 or less), a plasma torpedo is an
option, but only at a cloaked ship.  The reason for this is that others
are likely to blow it up on top of you if they are close enough (your
plasma torpedoes have the shortest range of any ship, though they do the
most damage).  Your phasers are your most potent weapons, and this is
due not only to their range and power, but also to the fact that you can
fire them every 4 ticks rather than every 10 as with other ships  (a
tick is approximately a tenth of a second).  this essentially makes your
phasers do 2.5 times the damage, for a maximum of 300 points in the time
it takes a battleship (the ship with the next best phasers) to do 105. 
Considering that *no* ship has 300 shields will give you an idea of just
how powerful your phasers are since you can kill even an assault ship in
less than the time it takes for one of its phasers to disperse.  Of
course these damage figures are for phasering at point blank range
(something you will hopefully not do too often!) they should give you
some idea of how dangerous they are.  The disadvantage to this is that
each time you fire phasers you add 9.6 to your weapon temperature and
only disperse this at .4 per click.  This is equivalent to firing just
under 5 photon torpedoes.  In the short run, this is not a problem.  You
can kill even an assault ship at moderate range without overheating, but
if there are other enemies around, you should concentrate on using
photon torpedoes.  photon torpedoes do not significantly heat up your
weapons (only 2 per photon torpedo).  You should always fire them in
preference to (or at least in concert with) another weapon.  Although
your photon torpedoes are only average speed and do only moderate
damage, your advantage lies in the fact that you get what amounts to an
unlimited number of them because of the starbase's tremendous fuel
reserves and fuel regeneration rate.  You should fire a cluster of them
at cloakers to try and hit at least once, and then phaser the explosion
to get a "phaser-lock".  This trick tends to allow you to do excellent
phaser damage without overheating your weapons by missing with phasers.

  Learning to use tractors and pressors is crucial.   Not only do they
help you stay alive, but they are also the best way to kill enemies
quickly.  You should learn how to judge the movements of tractored
ships, and fire your photon torpedoes where they will be pulled to.  If
an enemy is crippled and a teammate has fired upon him, using tractors
or pressors to push or pull the enemy ship into the incoming photon
torpedoes will prevent it from dodging and give your teammate a kill.  A
good starbase player gives kills away at every opportunity since he
doesn't need them.  This requires some judgment and experience to do
well, and usually involves taking some damage, but is worthwhile if you
can do it.  The standard method is to phaser and torpedo an enemy ship
until it is about to explode, then pressor it towards a teammate, who
can hit it last and blow it up while it fires at you.  This sort of
behavior makes you a true asset to your team and a good player besides. 
At the same time, if the situation is not favorable to this sort of
maneuver, as it often is not in the presence of multiple oggers or a
single cloaker, killing the enemy is an acceptable and necessary
alternative.  Always pressor oggers that charge at you while uncloaked
as soon as they are within range so they do not get close enough to
inflict serious damage.  As a final note on tractors, you should tractor
friendly ships coming towards you if you think they want to dock, and
break tractors as their ship overlaps yours so you do not accidentally
tractor them off of you after they dock.  This seemingly simple maneuver
actually requires some practice to get right.  Friendly ships flashing
shields and heading at you often are requesting a tractor beam to help
them dock more quickly and are often hurt.

  While playing a base the most important display to watch the galactic
map.  You MUST do this even if enemies are currently on your screen.  If
you don not, you will fall prey to oggers who attack when you are
already engaged.  This is the main difference between an average base
player, and a good base player. You should observe the "group" movements
of the enemies.  If a large group seems to be headed your way, move back
immediately.  If you are ogged from more than one direction, pressor one
while moving away and kill the one(s) you are moving towards.  This will
place you as far as possible from the point your enemies are converging
upon.  In a well coordinated ogg, you will often have people coming in
both cloaked and uncloaked.  In this case, it is imperative that you
pressor the uncloaked ship as soon as it is in range.  Once you do that,
you will be moving away from all oggers (at least from that direction)
at a much greater speed.  You should then fire at the other ships first,
since they are the most dangerous threat (the pressored ship will close
very slowly).  If more than one enemy is uncloaked, you should kill the
non-pressored uncloaked people as quickly as possible, changing targets
only if the cloaked ships seem to be getting very close to you.  In
cases like this, it is usually unwise to fire plasma torpedoes since
they will probably get phasered on top of you.

  In starbase to starbase combat, the base with more support usually
wins.  If you see that your teammates are coming to help and you aren't
too damaged, be aggressive, tractor the enemy base keep it from
retreating without getting so close you get caught in its explosion.  In
this type of combat, photon torpedoes are the weapon of choice.  Don't
get so caught up in trying to hit him that you forget to dodge.  Fire
your photon torpedoes and weave back and forth. It is often bad to
detonate photon torpedoes, since you are increasing your weapon
temperature and taking damage; in a starbase vs. starbase battle you
will need all the weapon temperature you can get.  If you get close
enough, you should consider phasering until your weapons get hot (but be
careful not to overheat, 80-100 is about the highest you should go).  In
starbase vs. starbase combat you should *never* fire a plasma torpedo. 
With your opponent's exceptional phaser range and recharge speed, it is
almost guaranteed to be phasered on top of you.  There are a couple of
exceptions to this:  1)  You KNOW the enemy base has blown his weapons,
or 2) He is currently very, very occupied with oggers.  You must also
consider your weapon temperature vs. the extra damage from the plasma. 
Finally, if the enemy base starts to tractor you, pressor him and and in
the direction away from him.  If you forget to move in the opposite
direction, he will still gain on you.  In the event that you believe you
will lose the battle, tractor and move towards the enemy base and fire
all weapons irrespective of weapon temperature since your weapons will
not actually break until you stop firing.

  Most of being a good starbase beyond just surviving is learning to be
in the right place at the right time.  Be in the wrong place and at best
hordes of enemies will converge on you and kill you. At worst you will
drift off alone as all foes give you a wide berth since you are simply
not doing anything except occupying one of your team's player slots. 
You should almost always be in one of the following states: 1) Picking
up armies (from front line planets) 2) Guarding a weak planet, 3)
Supporting the front line, 4) Helping take an enemy planet 5) Repairing
or 6) Drawing enemy fire.  At the same time, you should act as an army
storehouse if you feel able to stay alive and there are armies on your
side.  Hoarding armies is discussed below.  Guarding a weak planet is
obvious, it takes time and coordination for your foes to have a prayer
of taking a planet with an observant starbase there.  Supporting the
front line involves sitting slightly behind it while tractoring hurt
ships out of battle and acting as a roving refuel and repair point.  If
your team has no fuel/repair planets on one side of your front, go to
that side if you are not clearly needed elsewhere.

  Getting around as a base isn't as simple as in other ships.  Although
you can simply go somewhere, it's slow.  If you need to be somewhere
fast, get a tow.  This involves getting a teammate or three to go where
you want to be while you tag along with a tractor beam.  You should
tractor at least one of the towers.  The towers should go warp 8 so that
they do not break out of your tractor or get pulled back to your base. 
Don't forget to lock on to the tower, so you don't have your movement is
working with your tractors.  Watch your weapon temperature when
employing this tactic to be certain that you do not overheat.  If you
do, you will be restricted to warp one and will be without your
tractor/pressor beams until they repair.

  Unless you are under nearly constant fire or very damaged, repairing
can be done in transit since you move slowly and repair quickly with
shields down.  Drawing enemy fire is most effectively done by moving
forwards and attracting attention when someone else on your team wants
to enter enemy space unnoticed to bomb or take planets.  Carrying armies
seems self-explanatory and it is for the most part.  You should carry
armies to prevent them from being bombed and to keep them accessible (so
planet takers do not have to fly around gathering them)  The only
important thing to note here is that you should play a bit more
defensively (ie: closer to your home planet) if you are carrying a
significant proportion of your team's armies.  Also, you should
periodically post to the team message board how many you are carrying so
that your team will know if it's time to make a delivery of armies to
you or if they can expect to be able to pick up armies at the base.

  As your team's starbase, you will occasionally be called upon to deal
with enemy robots.  Never use plasma on them as they will *always* blow
it up on top of you.  Since you are only moving warp 2, it will be very
difficult to dodge their photon torpedoes.  The best strategy is to
tractor the hapless robot and quickly phaser it to death.  You will take
damage, (200 points is about average for killing an uninjured robot
without assistance once you get good at it) but it's quick.  In an
otherwise even game, an enemy robot can easily unbalance a game if left
alive.  If the robot is in as a base, you should run while pressoring
him and keep firing photon torpedoes, which will cause him to veer off.

  Inevitably you will be damaged, badly.  In this situation, start moving
directly away from the enemy home planet (so oggers have to travel
further to reach you) and send a distress call.  If you are alone and
hurt badly enough to be unable to move faster than warp one, cloak until
a friendly ship arrives on your screen since this sign of weakness will
be seized upon by your enemies as a call to obliterate you.  Pressoring
enemies (if any) is a quick way to get home since it both slows them
down and speeds you up.  As soon as there is a friendly ship on your
screen, tractor or pressor it as appropriate to speed your trip to the
nearest repair planet, or your home planet if the damage is severe
enough.  As a final note, do not abuse the distress call.  Use it only
when badly hurt or you really need your team (such as when you are about
to enter combat with the enemy base) or they will tend not to come when
you really need them.
t
  A starbase is about the best cover any prospective planet taker could
hope for.  If an enemy planet is contested and you are there as the
starbase, you should destroy all hostile ships in the area.  If there
are too many enemies, placing yourself between them and the planet works
in conjunction with detonating photon torpedoes so that a teammate can
slip in behind you and take the planet unmolested.

  One final clue, split damage.  In most ships, taking internal (hull)
damage has a detrimental effect on your ship's performance in terms of
top speed.  However, since you don't suffer the effects of damage in a
base until internal damage exceeds 400 points, you should attempt to
take roughly one point of damage internally for every two points you
take on your shields.  This is more important than some people realize
because shields and hull repair simultaneously.  This technique
substantially increases your repair rate leaving you more time to help
your team.

  Good luck!

Notes:

  Remember to enable docking with the "e" key.  This allows ships to lock
on and dock at your base to repair, refuel, and pick up or beam down
armies.  Your teammates will most likely get upset if you leave it
deactivated.  You will know when it is enabled by searching for the "D"
docking flag by your alerts.

  To deal with the player who locks on and cloaks (eating your fuel the
whole time), hit "e" twice (toggle docking permission off then on again)
so all ships currently locked on break off.  If the person continues in
this behavior, disable docking until he tires and tell your team about
it.

  Remapping tractors to an easily accessible key is desirable since you
will be using it often.  Having it right next to pressors is also
important since often when an enemy ship realizes it is doomed, it will
turn around and try to ram.  You have to be quick to pressor or you will
tend to take severe damage.  Having the detonate photon torpedoes key
accessible is also useful since you will be doing a lot of detonating as
a base.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

End of PLAYING SB
*****************

