			      PLAYING CA

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Newsgroups: alt.games.xtrek
Date: Fri, 18 Oct 1991 19:27:28 -0400 
From: John Andrew Markiel <jm79+@andrew.cmu.edu>
Subject: Re: First installment of Xtrek Player's Guide

Very interesting...I'll follow up with a description of my favorite
ship, the cruiser.


- cut here-

Cruiser (CA) Play

SHIP SPECIFICATIONS:

Internal damage/shields: 100/100
Maximum warp speed: 9
Maximum fuel: 10000 
Fuel threshold speed (with/without shields): 5/6
Torpedo damage/fuel: 40/? 
Plasma damage/fuel: 100/? 
Phaser damage/fuel: Good (90-100  max)/? 
Maximum armies: 10
Bombing: Good 
Cloaking: Fair-Good
Manuverabilty: Fair 
Tractor/Pressor strength: Good

BATTLE TACTICS

General:

Cruisers in general are a very strong ship, although they have to be
more subtle than a BB. Their big advantage is that they have vast oceans
of fuel; in a sense they actually have more fuel than a BB, because the
BB's weapons use more fuel per fire, and the BB regenerates fuel slower.
and doesn't cloak as well. The big disadvantage to a cruiser is that
it's torps are as slow as BB torps (warp 12, and do the same damage as
BB torps), but the CA doesn't have the huge phasers of the BB, so it can
be difficult getting kills since it is hard to dish out the damage
without getting close, and the CA isn't quite hefty enough to live
through close combat. In general, a CA usually wants to plink away at
enemies, since a single torp is an awfully big plink. Very large torp
spreads aren't very effective, since hte torps are so slow: it's usually
more effective to second guess your opponent and try for just a hit or
two. I find the best thing about cruisers is that they are pretty good
at everything: they can stand in battle, they're fast enough to bomb and
take planets, and they're heavy enough for suicide missions.

Cruiser battle speed is between 4 and 5, depending on the situation. I
like to change speeds a lot, so this may not apply to other players.
Above warp 7, the turning radius becomes terrible, and you become an
easy target for a line of torps. Both tractors and pressors are useful
for a CA, although not as much as for a BB. They're generally used to
make slight differences in the distance between you and the enemy,
either pulling him in for a phaser and some quick torps, or getting a
little extra push to help in dodging (this last trick helps to improve
the manuverability of the CA...combining a pressor with a turn is a good
way to spin away from incoming torps).

Watch carefully how much fuel your opponent is using. This is most
important for CA, since at close range you can do gruesome damage with
your 40 point torps, but you can't afford to take as many hits as a BB
can. If your opponent is low on fuel, you can quite literally run him
over with no risk to yourself, but if you guess wrong, you'll probably
both space dust.

vs. Battleship (BB)

The BB is the only ship larger than the CA, and must be treated as such.
I find the best method is either to just get around the BB (using your
higher combat speed) or try to stay at range and get some torp hits in
before the BB can close. You need about 7 torp hits to kill the BB, and
you should probably get half of those before closing. Your phasers do
less damage than the BB's, so try to avoid getting into a phaser battle:
you'll lose. Stick to your photons which do the same damage as BB
photons.

vs. Cruiser (CA)

CA-CA battles usually involve deciding how close to get to the enemy,
since the amount of damage a CA can do rising sharply as the distance
decreases. Again, torps are usually more effective than phasers, as you
only need 5 torps and a small phaser to kill, and most enemies will turn
tail after taking 3-4 torps. These battles usually involve endless
circling, trying to get in a few torp hits without taking any yourself.
If you're gutsy, you can try to strafe your opponent, easily smearing
him with torps and hoping he doesn't react fast enough to take you down
too: this often ends in a fiery mutual annihilation.

vs. Destroyer (DD)

Destroyers are a little quicker than cruisers, but can't do as much
damage. Charging straight as a DD is likely to net you a faceful of
torps; I find it best to be a little more sneaky. Try to guess when he's
going to fire and slip close to him, or turn toward him as he turns
toward you: before he realizes his mistake, you can pour torps and
phasers into him, and his response just isn't heavy enough to take you
out. Especially if he tries to keep his shields down, you can whittle
down a DD with some carefully chosen phasers...try to fire only when
you're doing about 25 points or more, less damage isn't really woth it.

vs. Scout (SC)

CA can usually deal with scouts as long as you don't get too
enthusiastic or greedy. torps are usually a waste, since a scout can
almost fly circles around your torps. Try to hit the scout with about
two decent phasers while continuing to dodge: then tractor him and go
for the kill. He probably only has about 100 damage points left: you can
dish this out in two close phasers before he can hit you with enough
torps. Also, be prepared to det the incoming torps, and the scout will
have a rough time doing enough damage to you.

vs. Assault Ship (AS)

AS are a pain, especially for cruisers, beacuse you have to pound them
again and again before they go down. Be patient: you have almost twice
as much fuel as the AS, so keep dodging and hit him with torp, after
torp, after torp...try to force the AS to use his fuel keeping you away,
and when you think he's out, run him over. Of course, if you're wrong...

KEY REMAPS:

Cruisers do just about everything, so all combat keys are useful to a
CA. I made my keymap by deciding which keys were most important and
ensuring that I could hit those easily. I think this really depends on
personal style, but I think shields, tractor/pressor, det both your and
enemy torps should all be within easy reach.

PLANET TAKING

Cruisers are quite good for planet taking. They have a good sized hull
for taking hits, and have enough speed that they can actually get around
fast enough. Also, their cloak is good enough, combined with their
enourmous fuel, to spend a long time cloaked. I find it useful to be a
little subtle when taking planets: try to avoid taking lots of hits, and
in a pinch try to get your opponent to run out of fuel. You are quite
capable of circling a planet cloaked again and again while the enemy
pours fuel into empty space. Cruisers have another big advantage in
taking planets: they are less conspicuous. An asssault ship is almost
always tagged as a probably planet taker, but since a cruiser can
suicide, bomb, escort, the enemy is never certain if you're actually a
planet taker until it's too late.

SUICIDE ATTACKS (OGGING)

In my opinion, for suiciding a particular target, no ship is better than
the CA, because only a BB can do more damage at close range, and the
BB's manuverability is often to poor to intercept a target. Your best
chance of success is if the enemy doesn't notice you, so try to attack
when the enemy is distracted. Cloak and fly toward your target at warp
7: this is fast enough to get there quickly but still gives you an
acceptable turning radius. When you get about 1/2-1 inch away, raise
shields, uncloak, tractor, and phaser continuously. Wait till he starts
to fire at you, and then unload a full stream of torps, since he won't
have time to start dodging. If you fire too soon, your target may be
able to dodge your slow torps and respond with his faster fire.  This
works well against starbases too, although against an SB you fire as
soon as you can.

DEFENSE

Cruisers can be great for just holding an area of space. Although it can
be hard for you to kill an opponent, it is also often hard for an
opponent to dislodge you. Just be patient, dodging back, and forth,
until your opponent is pointed toward you, and then unload your full
fire right into his face. If you're good you can hold against several
cautious enemies, or several over-enthusiastic ones. Also, your speed is
usually enough to match the enemy, so you don't have to worry a lot
about being outrun to a planet.

------------------------------

End of PLAYING CA
*****************

