			       PLAYING BB

----------------------------------------------------------------------

From: tom@ocf.berkeley.edu (Tom Holub)
Newsgroups: alt.games.xtrek
Subject: First installment of Xtrek Player's Guide
Date: 16 Oct 91 07:56:14 GMT

This is the first draft of the first thing I've written for the Xtrek
Player's Guide; it's a description of how to play a battleship.  I
could write descriptions for the other ships, but I think there are 
people who know them better than me.  I can take care of the 
ship specs for all of 'em, but I'd appreciate descriptions of 
strategies.

- cut here --- cut here --- cut here --- cut here --- cut here ---

Battleship (BB) Play

SHIP SPECIFICATIONS:

Internal damage/shields: 130/130 
Maximum warp speed: 8 
Maximum fuel: 14000 
Fuel threshold speed (with/without shields): 4/4 
Torpedo damage/fuel: 40/? 
Plasma damage/fuel: 130/? 
Phaser damage/fuel: Excellent (105 max)/? 
Maximum armies: 6 
Bombing: Good 
Cloaking: Fair
Manuverabilty: Poor 
Tractor/Pressor strength: Excellent

BATTLE TACTICS:

General:

Battleships have great phasers and can take a lot of damage; this makes
them the best ship for close-quarters combat.  At long range,
battleships can't dodge torps as well as other ships, so it's imperative
to try and close in on the opponent.  Once you're at close range,
remember that it's more important to dodge often than to dodge well;
with 260 damage to give up, a torp hit or two doesn't matter that
much--you should concentrate on not being Pac-Man.  
(wakka wakka wakka wakka...)

Battle speed should be 3.  Speeds up to 6 can be useful in battle, but
acceleration is so slow that maximum warp should never be reached in a
normal dogfight.  Above warp 3, dodging will be too slow to avoid
well-aimed torps.

Tractor beams are crucial--they are the best way to get close to the
enemy.  When he gets too close, let go of the tractor.  If he tries to
suicide you, pressor him away.  You have the strongest tractors and
pressors in the game, so you should be able to keep the other ship where
you want it.


vs. Battleship (BB)

BB-BB battles result in mutual death more often than not, since both
players are trying to tractor the other one in.  Be prepared for his
tractor beam; a well-timed pressor can often hang your opponent out on
the end of a string of torps.  Try to get at least 2-3 torp hits before
you go in for the kill.

vs. Cruiser (CA)

Battleships are the best cruiser-killers.  Cruisers can't dodge
significantly better than BB's, their phasers are a lot weaker, and
their pressors aren't strong enough to keep a determined battleship
away.  You also need to do 60 less damage to them than they need to do
to you.  The most efficient way to kill them is the Tractor-Phaser
Method: Tractor them in and dodge; their retaliatory string of torps
will usually go to the place you just dodged from.  Phaser and dodge the
other way.  Repeat, adding torps when necessary.  You'll be surprised
how little damage they're able to do to you if you get in a groove.

vs. Destroyer (DD)

You have to be cautious around destroyers; if you try to fight them at
long range, their superior dodging and fast torps will destroy you, but
if you try too hard to tractor them in, you'll be greeted with a
connect-the-dots puzzle as they take off at warp 10.  You have to watch
them when you slap on the tractor; if they accelerate, let go and dodge.
If they don't, they're toast; it doesn't take many battleship phasers to
kill a destroyer.

vs. Scout (SC)

Easy kill.  All you have to do is get them close enough to phaser to
death, and you can do this by heading for them at warp 8 while
detonating their torps, and tractoring them when they get in range (you
may need to rush them slightly off-line so they can't get a good burst
of torps into you).  If you catch them while you still have some shield
left (which is a good possibility), they don't have a prayer.  Three
good phasers (or two very good ones) and they're gone.

vs. Assault Ship (AS)

Assault ships are difficult to kill, no matter what you're flying, just
because they're good at running away and have the highest
Internal+Damage rating in the game.  They can't do damage too well,
though, so all you have to do is make sure that you don't eat all their
torps.  Dodging often is again the key; AS's have so little fuel that
even if they hit you with 5 or 6 torps out of 3 lines of 'em, they won't
be able to finish the job.

SUGGESTED KEY REMAPS:

Tractors and pressors should be next to each other; I remap 'T' to 't'
and use the mouse for torps.  It's also important to be able to get to
'D'; I remap that to space bar.  I could also see the value of three
keys in a row, one for tractors, one for phasers, and one for pressors.
It can be useful having maximum warp handy, but in a BB it's not crucial
since it'll take you long enough to get up there that any high number
will do (I just direct my fingers in the general direction of the right
side of the top of the keyboard, and press '8' or '9' when I have time
to).

PLANET TAKING:

Battleships aren't as good at taking easy planets as DD's or CA's,
mainly because they can't get around as fast, but their ability to take
a lot of damage makes them very good at taking heavily guarded planets.
The general strategy is to cloak in at maximum warp--slower warps just
eat up your fuel too fast.  Even after you start beaming down armies,
you can take 3 BB torp hits and live; only AS's fare better (and they're
not as good for other reasons).

CLOAK ATTACKING:

Battleships are great at cloak attacking; the powerful tractors keep the
runner from getting away, and the strong phasers can't be dodged.
Cloaking takes a lot of fuel, as does tractoring and phasering the
target, so you can't do it from too far away, and you can't mess around
with dodging torps or adjusting your course, either.  If the target sees
you coming and turns tail (and it doesn't look like you can get a
tractor lock), pull out.  If you *can* get a tractor lock, you should be
able to get a running ship (if it's smaller than you) at least 75% of
the time.

You can also do *mass* damage to starbases.

DEFENDING PLANETS:

Battleships are the consumate planet defense ship; the great plasmas and
torps can kill anything you can get a bead on.  One thing to watch out
for is using your fuel too soon; if a DD fakes going for Earth, you fire
all your torps at him and then he takes off for Altair, there's not much
you can do; even if you can catch him before he takes the planet, you
probably won't have much fuel left.  Also be wary of teams that are
smart enough to send a fake cloaker in; if you chase the wrong guy,
you'll never be able to get back in time to kill the right one.  Also
watch out for guys that wait for you to come out on an ogging run and
then cloak towards your home planet; if you don't notice soon enough,
he'll be past you and you won't be able to turn around fast enough.

------------------------------

End of PLAYING BB
*****************

