From: leonard@mimsy.umd.edu (Leonard Dickens)
Newsgroups: alt.games.xtrek
Subject: Team play with starbases
Date: 3 Feb 92 14:05:11 GMT

I have been borg basing it a bit on rwd4 lately, often against a
remarkably lack of clue.  (151 kills == someone has no clue)  I have
noticed both friendly and enemy play that reveals that people have not
pondered enough what is going on.  Here are a few tips for people to
use when playing with a starbase in the game.  

First, a few tips for the enemy:

o Don't ogg the enemy base without coordination

The base is more powerful than you.  You will die.  And unless he is
near to your home planet, he will be FULLY repaired before you get back
to give him another kill.  UNLESS you coordinate with at least two
other people on your team, forget it.


o Avoid the enemy base, unless there is a reason not to.

The way to kill bases is to lure them too far away from their home
planet, then to ogg like crazy.  The way to lure them forward is
simply to avoid them... you are faster than they are.  They cannot
kill you unless you ask for it by going to them.  And there is almost
always something better for you to be doing than trying to ogg bases.
Scout bomb.  Take a planet that is just off the base's screen.  Ogg
enemies with kills that are not lurking near the base.

IMO, the only time you should go near an enemy base is to ogg it or an
important enemy planet-taker (who admittedly are often found near
bases...)


Now some tips for my pals:

o Use a base to free scout chasers

As soon as a side is down to about two or three planets with the
typical 30 or so armies on them after the initial bombing surge, it is
time to enter a base.  Bases can pick up as many as 25 armies, and
need no kills to do so.  Armies in a base are far safer than armies on
planets, and do not need players constantly guarding them.  This frees
up those players that would otherwise be fruitlessly chasing AS and
scouts to do other things.  Thus, anytime your base has indicated he
is more or less full of armies, do NOT bother to pursue scouts.  Get
kills and take planets, content in the knowledge that with those
scouts in your rear lines bombing the occasional army or two, you have
a numerical advantage over the other enemy ships.


o Use your base to conceal army movement

Netrek is *not* a game about ships, but planets and armies.  Clueless
and/or angry people may be content to dogfight aimlessly, but persons
of clue only dogfight with a purpose, and they often do other things.
They scout bomb, for one, which has been previously stressed on this
newsgroup.  But they also watch enemy players beam up armies, and then
announce that fact to their team, and then try to ogg the carrier.

This trait is even more pronounced in a borg game; every pig borg, and
also apparently all sunborgs have the capability to report to their
rider exactly who has picked up armies and how many.  Regardless of
whether you are cloaked or in range.  Therefore, you *will* be
ogged...

Unless you Use Your Starbase.  The server does NOT (to my knowledge)
report the PF_BEAM flags for people beaming from/to bases.  And of
course you cannot see the number of armies in an enemy base even with
a borg.  Thus, it is usually far better to get your armies from a base
than from a planet.  (Of course if the base is nowhere near a planet
with armies, go ahead and grab them.)  There have been numerous
occasions over the weekend where I have approached a planet with
armies on it at the same time as one of my side's planet takers, only
to have them take the armies and get ogged.

Summary: don't make life easy for the enemy.  Get armies from your
base preferentially.

Also, a *real* useful thing to do when you have one kill and feel
generous is ferry armies to your base.  Yet another positive action
that earns no DI.  (People with 2+ kills should be taking planets.)
Seems like a good tactic might to be to (obviously) pick up armies,
drop them on your base, and then wait for oggers to come and give you
additional kills.  (Use a BB for this.)


o Use your base to refit/refuel/repair -- smartly

Your base is exactly like your home planet -- you refuel, refit and
repair much faster there than just sitting around.  (I believe that
you actually repair there even faster than on a repair planet -- any
gurus out there to confirm/deny this?)  So, when you are hurt or out
of fuel, consider your base just as you might consider a planet.

But remember: unlike a planet, a base can die.  Especially if you blow
up on him/her.  Therefore, if battle is hot or looks to get hot
nearby, do NOT dock.  Go somewhere else.  Flash if you need help; a
base can help you even without docking; see below.


o Your base can help you take planets -- even if you only have one kill

Often people with one kill try to get a second before moving into
planet-taking mode.  This is not always necessary -- if the planet you
are targeting is next to your base and not to near the enemy
homeworld.  Go to your base, possibly get into an AS, and quickly
ferry armies from the base to the planet.  (Tell the base what you are
doing, of course.)  The base can pressor you to the planet and tractor
you back to speed the process... you can even take agris this way.

Remember: to take a planet it is only necessary to get armies there
faster than it pops.


o Your base can save your ass

Bases have big tractors and pressors.  Good bases use them.  Your base
can sometimes pressor or tractor you out of the way of a torp stream.
Be prepared for this.  Your base can also tractor you entirely out of
a battle, if you are too injured to fly fast -- but this is unlikely
unless he/she *knows* you are injured.  Signal to your base if you
need help, by flashing your shields up and down three or five times.

Bases can also det for you, since they can absorb lots of damage.
(They take 600 internal, and have 500 shields.)  If the base values
you, he may decide to tractor you in and protect you even in a pitched
battle.  (Hint: I personally will do all sorts of things for my side's
planet takers while basing.)

A base is great cover to take a planet behind.  Or even near.  Enemies
tend to avoid bases unless they are explicitly trying to attack them.


o You can save your base's ass

Bases will inevitably take a big ogg or two, often far from their home
planet.  You will know this because (a) they will give a distress call
showing substantial damage, and (b) the enemy will mass to try and
annihilate them.  Now, if your base is carrying precious armies, or
you need it for other reasons, try to help it live.  Here are some
useful things to do.  Get between the oggers and the base, and try to
kill them before they get there.  Or, put yourself in a position to
tow the base.  (That is, about 1/2 screen away from the base in the
direction of the home planet.  Be prepared to accelerate when you
notice the pull of the tractor.)

Or, get between the base and the oggers in a BB or AS (ideally) and
det enemy torps that may hit the base.  This last tactic I have very
rarely seen but it is ever so helpful to a base.  Kill-ratio?  I *am*
talking about team play here...

-Wreck
