Article called 'War in Cyberspace'

"Everyone prepare for a baseogg! 30 seconds!" echos through the computerroom.
Sitting next to the captain, Fraser, Mark and Rakesh acknowledge the command.
On the screen Frank and Erik playing from the Netherlands signal that they're
ready too. Everyone manouvres his spaceship steadily into a good attacking
position. "Don't let the defenders distract you, avoid them! 15 seconds! Save
your fuel!" Mark has penetrated deeply into enemy space already, Frank has lost
precious time with eliminating an enemy vessle. The encirclement of the enemy
base is nearly complete. From all sides defenders are rushing in at high speed.
"Uh oh.. I think they're on to us" sneers Fraser. Five seconds. The circle is
closed. The enemy base starts to panic and shoots randomly around. It is now or
never. "OGG DA BASE!"

Seven ships cloack and become virtually invisible to the enemy. The distance
to the base is covered in no time. An attacker flies into a crossfire and
explodes. The base continues to shoot randomly around to discover more
invisible enemies before they reach him. Too late. Six ships become visible
near the base. One is shot down immedeately, but the others survive and open
fire on their turn. BOOM! A giant explosion signals the end of the most
powerfull enemy ship. Cries of victory scroll over the screen and through the
terminalroom. But the intoxication of victory is shortlived. The base might be
gone, but the battle itself is not won yet...

<b>European Netrek League</b>
This battle of life or death for the ultimate power in space takes place on
nothing less than your own monitorscreen. Netrek is a high paced action game
played via the Internet, meaning that the geographical location of the players
doesn't matter. Today an important game between the brittish team Chainsaw
Hamsters and the swedish team Swedish Erotica is being played. It are the finals
of the European Netrek championships. The winning team may call itself champion
of the ENL Spring 1997 season, a title they have been playing for since februari
this year.

Netrek is a teamgame and is based upon Star Trek. Two teams of each eight players
try to conquer each others planets. Both teams choose a race of their own first:
Klingon, Romulon, Orion or of course the Federation. At the beginning of the
battle each race owns ten planets which can very slowly produce armies. These
armies must be used to conquer the enemy planets. All players fly in a spaceship
of their own and they can choose from several different shiptypes. Each ship
has strengths and weaknesses depending on the tasks that must be fullfilled. All
players on a team must cooperate if they want to achieve their goal: the
complete and total extermination of the inferior race occupying the other end of
the galaxy!

The succesfully executed baseogg of a moment ago is the summit of teamwork
within Netrek. It is a suicideattack by the entire team to get rid of the
starbase of the opposing team. With less ships this will simply not work. The
starbase is the most powerfull ship in the game and can be compared to the Death
Star from Star Wars. Each team only has one at a time and after it is being
killed it takes 25 minutes to rebuild it. The word 'ogg' represents the Netrek
variant of Kamikaze attack. Because a ship can only fire to one side at once the
attackers must all come from different angles. The building up of a good attack
position in itself is already hard enough, because the defenders won't allow you
to do that unharrassed. And further the timing of the arrival at the enemy base
must be perfect. If the attackers arrive one by one the base can simply shoot
them easily one by one too.

Killing? Suicide attack? How many lives it is you have at your disposal? The
answer is you have an infinite amount of ships. The idea is that players
resurrect after their death in a new and fully armed ship at their homeworld.
Only... that is deep into their own territory. Now first precious time is lost
by flying back to your old position, time which the enemy has used in the
meantime in its own advantage by taking over a planet for example. The more
planets a team conquers, the more the front moves towards the homeworld of the
enemy and the harder it gets to conquer more planets since each time you kill an
enemy he is faster back at the front.

There have been developed tactics and strategies to enforce such advantages and
eventually win the game. One of the players of a team is the captain who gives
guidance to his team. He assigns the tasks and coordinates joint actions. The
more experienced the team and the single players, the faster they react to each
other. This speed is crucial because the element of surprise is very important
in Netrek. Not every player knows what his teammates and the enemy players are
doing now or planning to do. Yet he has to know what his captain is planning and
he has to inform his team of his own actions. For that purpose Netrek has an
advanced message communiation system which shows close resemblence to IRC
(Internet Relay Chat). This enables the entire team to work together.

Netrek allows people to use nicknames, just like on IRC (or MUD), but also
ranks. All flight information and achievements of a player is recorded and is
used for promotion. When being promoted someone can go from Ensign all the way
up to Admiral, with all the status that comes with it.

<b>All must be networked!</b>
The current rage in computerland is to make every game networked, and preferably
with internet support. The problem with this approach is that these games are
not explicitly written for the online experience and just extended to allow
multiple persons to play the game. The fenomenon 'teamgame' is still completely
undiscovered in the massgamingindustry. It is the team cooperation one finds in
sports like soccer that it is about here. The gameconcept must enforce this
kind of cooperation in order for a player to be successfull.

In the future games will eventually evolve in the direction of electronic
sports. Not only the multi-player concept will make these games popular, but
the added value of cooperation on tactical and strategical level as well. In
America already exist great arcade halls where tens of flight simulators are
lined up next to each other in which teams keep their aireal combats. It will
take some time before this comes over to Great Brittain, but untill that time
there is an alternative that everyone can play and that is at least as
fascinating: Netrek.





Copyright 1997, May 23rd by Erik Hietbrink, ehb@sci.kun.nl
